## Custom models! 🧠
### Use Plandex with models from OpenRouter, Together.ai, and more
- Use `plandex models add` to add a custom model and use any provider that is compatible with OpenAI, including OpenRouter.ai, Together.ai, Ollama, Replicate, and more.
- Anthropic Claude models are available via OpenRouter.ai. Google Gemini 1.5 preview is also available on OpenRouter.ai but was flakey in initial testing. Tons of open source models are available on both OpenRouter.ai and Together.ai, among other providers.
- Some built-in models and model packs (see 'Model packs' below) have been included as a quick way to try out a few of the more powerful model options. Just use `plandex set-model` to try these.
- You can use a custom model you've added with `plandex set-model`, or add it to a model pack (see 'Model packs' below) with `plandex model-packs create`. Delete custom models you've added with `plandex models delete`.
- The roles a custom model can be used for depends on its OpenAI compatibility. You can set a model's compatibility when adding it with `plandex models add`. That determines which roles it can be used for.
- Each model provider has an `ApiKeyEnvVar` associated with it, like `OPENROUTER_API_KEY`, `TOGETHER_API_KEY`, etc. You will need to have the appropriate environment variables set with a valid api key for each provider that you're using.
- Because all of Plandex's prompts have been tested against OpenAI models, support for new models should be considered **experimental**.
- If you find prompting patterns that are effective for certain models, please share them on Discord (https://discord.gg/plandex-ai) or GitHub (https://github.com/plandex-ai/plandex/discussions) and they may be included in future releases.

## Major file update improvements 📄
- Much better accuracy for updates to existing files.
- Plandex is less likely to screw up braces, parentheses, and other code structures.
- Plandex is less likely to mistakenly remove code that it shouldn't.

## Major improvements to long plans with many steps 🛤️
- Plandex's 'working memory' has been upgraded. It is now much better at working through very long plans without skipping tasks, repeating tasks it's already done, or otherwise losing track of what it's doing.

## 'plandex diff' command ⚖️
- New `plandex diff` command shows pending plan changes in `git diff` format.

## Plans can be archived 🗄️
- If you aren't using a plan anymore, but you don't want to delete it, you can now archive it.
- Use `plandex archive` (or `plandex arc` for short) to archive a plan.
- Use `plandex plans --archived` (or `plandex plans -a`) to see archived plans in the current directory.
- Use `plandex unarchive` (or `plandex unarc`) to restore an archived plan.

## Model packs 🎛️
- Instead of changing models for each role one by one, a model packs let you switch out all roles at once.
- Use `plandex model-packs create` to create your own model packs. 
- Use `plandex model-packs` to list built-in and custom model packs. 
- Use `plandex set-model` to load a model pack.
- Use `plandex model-packs delete` to remove a custom model pack.

## Model defaults ⚙️
- Instead of only changing models on a per-plan basis, you can set model defaults that will apply to all new plans you start.
- Use `plandex models default` to see default model settings and `plandex set-model default` to update them. 

## More commands 💻
- `plandex summary` to see a summary of the current state of the plan.
- `plandex rename` to rename the current plan

## Quality of life improvements 🧘‍♀️
- Descriptive top-line for `plandex apply` commit messages instead of just "applied pending changes".
- Better message in `plandex log` when a single piece of context is loaded or updated.
- Abbreviate really long file paths in `plandex ls`.
- Changed OPENAI_ENDPOINT env var to OPENAI_API_BASE, which is more standardized. OPENAI_ENDPOINT is still quietly supported.

## Bug fixes 🐞
- Fix for potential crash in `plandex changes` TUI.
- Fixes for some rare potential deadlocks and conflicts when building a file or stopping astream.
